Hook: Imagine a world where no one dies of TB. Sounds too good to be true, right? But it's not. We could choose to live in that world. And it starts with making the most powerful and effective drugs for treating drug-resistant TB available to everyone, not just the rich.

Introduction:
TB is a critical medication for treating drug-resistant TB, but the price had been artificially high due to lack of competition. Two activists, Firmeza and her friend Mendieta Venkatesan, filed a lawsuit in India to prevent the pharmaceutical company Johnson & Johnson from extending its patent on the drug past its initial 2023 expiration date. Nandita succeeded in convincing Indian courts that J&J shouldn't have a forever patent on this critical drug, which allowed for generic competition and far less expensive adapalene.

Section 1: The Cost of TB Drugs
Experts estimate that over 50,000 people with MDR TB will receive treatment every year who otherwise would have had little chance of being cured. The world health organization's recommendations for people like Famosa with drug-resistant TB were supportive care, which doctors summarized as "put them in a hut by the side of the road and wait for them to die." But in the late 1990s, Partners in Health proved that similar cure rates for MDR TB could be achieved in poor communities as were achieved at the world's finest hospitals.

Section 2: The Choice Before Us
While TB is often curable, it remains a difficult disease to treat, especially with extensive drug resistance. How many would die if everyone could access good healthcare? Dr. K J Sung recently asked, "How many people should die of TB?" He answered, "Non-zero people should die of TB." We could choose to live in a world where no one dies of TB, but it requires sacrifices and long-term large-scale investments by rich countries.

Conclusion:
TB in the 21st century is not caused by a bacteria we know how to kill, but by poverty, bad housing, bad sanitation, bad working conditions, long hours, high rent, and poor food. We can choose to live in a world where no one dies of TB, but it requires the accumulation and dissemination of knowledge about the illness and how to treat it. We've done this before with HIV treatment, and we can do it again with TB. Pressure our governments and institutions to invest more in research and global efforts to provide curative therapy. Let's choose a world where no one dies of TB.

